README.md, before:

# Getting Started
Implementation based on [Tutorial found on www.graphql-java.com](https://www.graphql-java.com/tutorials/getting-started-with-spring-boot/)

### Versions and Dependencies
Spring Boot 2.7.3, using spring-boot-starter-graphql as single dependency for GraphQL.

### History and Migration
Before Spring Boot 2.7.0 the two dependencies: 
* graphql-spring-boot-starter (5.0.2), together with
* graphql-java-tools (5.2.4))

... have been used along with implementation of the two interfaces GraphQLQueryResolver and GraphQLMutationResolver.
Both are not required/supported since Spring Boot 2.7.0 and replaced with Annotations.  

Also see [blog.devgenius.io](https://blog.devgenius.io/graphql-with-spring-boot-starter-graphql-7b406998c0b5)
where migration to 2.7.0 from earlier versions is described.

### Example Query
Navigate to http://localhost:8080/graphiql and place following query:
```
{
    bookById(id: "book-1"){
        id
        name
        pageCount
        author {
            firstName
            lastName
        }
    }
}
```

### Reference Documentation
For further reference, please consider the following sections:

* [Official Apache Maven documentation](https://maven.apache.org/guides/index.html)
* [Spring Boot Maven Plugin Reference Guide](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.3/maven-plugin/reference/html/)
* [Create an OCI image](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.3/maven-plugin/reference/html/#build-image)
* [Spring Web](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.3/reference/htmlsingle/#web)

### Guides
The following guides illustrate how to use some features concretely:

* [Building a RESTful Web Service](https://spring.io/guides/gs/rest-service/)
* [Serving Web Content with Spring MVC](https://spring.io/guides/gs/serving-web-content/)
* [Building REST services with Spring](https://spring.io/guides/tutorials/rest/)

Commit message:

Add "ToDo: Activate /graphql endpoint"

README.md, after:

# Getting Started
Implementation based on [Tutorial found on www.graphql-java.com](https://www.graphql-java.com/tutorials/getting-started-with-spring-boot/)

### ToDo
Activate /graphql endpoint
- queries via http://localhost:8080/graphiql work as desired
- http://localhost:8080/graphql/schema.json leads to 404

### Versions and Dependencies
Spring Boot 2.7.3, using spring-boot-starter-graphql as single dependency for GraphQL.

### History and Migration
Before Spring Boot 2.7.0 the two dependencies: 
* graphql-spring-boot-starter (5.0.2), together with
* graphql-java-tools (5.2.4))

... have been used along with implementation of the two interfaces GraphQLQueryResolver and GraphQLMutationResolver.
Both are not required/supported since Spring Boot 2.7.0 and replaced with Annotations.  

Also see [blog.devgenius.io](https://blog.devgenius.io/graphql-with-spring-boot-starter-graphql-7b406998c0b5)
where migration to 2.7.0 from earlier versions is described.

### Example Query
Navigate to http://localhost:8080/graphiql and place following query:
```
{
    bookById(id: "book-1"){
        id
        name
        pageCount
        author {
            firstName
            lastName
        }
    }
}
```

### Reference Documentation
For further reference, please consider the following sections:

* [Official Apache Maven documentation](https://maven.apache.org/guides/index.html)
* [Spring Boot Maven Plugin Reference Guide](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.3/maven-plugin/reference/html/)
* [Create an OCI image](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.3/maven-plugin/reference/html/#build-image)
* [Spring Web](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.3/reference/htmlsingle/#web)

### Guides
The following guides illustrate how to use some features concretely:

* [Building a RESTful Web Service](https://spring.io/guides/gs/rest-service/)
* [Serving Web Content with Spring MVC](https://spring.io/guides/gs/serving-web-content/)
* [Building REST services with Spring](https://spring.io/guides/tutorials/rest/)
